# bl-gbt-ewhite

This repository contains a collection of programs and documentation relating to Breakthrough Listen / Berkeley SETI projects on the GBT. Below I've provided a brief summary of what each folder
contains. 

**mars2020**

On Feb. 11, 2021, Steve Croft and I conducted a GBT observation of the Mars2020 spacecraft (with Mars as the off-source) while it was en route to Mars. In this folder, you can find a 
Jupyter notebook that I used to analyze .dat files generated by running turboSETI on the fine spectral resolution .fil file we obtained for that observation. In addition, there is a 
python script which can calculate drift rates for any object listed in JPL Horizons given deldot values from the object's ephemeris file. Finally, there is also a PDF summarizing some 
comparisons between actually-measured drift rates and drift rates of various spacecraft in orbit around (or on the surface of) Mars. 

**near_realtime_turboseti**

There is a project currently underway which aims to implement turboSETI running in near-real-time on data coming in at the GBT. When observing with the GBT, multiple compute nodes are
used to record data for each observation (the exact number of compute nodes depends on the receiver in use); separate chunks of the spectrum are stored on each node, and when rawspec
is run after an observation, it generates separate filterbank files -- one for each node, which must then be spliced together if you wish to have a single filterbank file covering the
entire spectrum. It is faster, though, to run turboSETI on the unspliced filterbank files; so if you do that, then wish to have a single turboSETI (.dat) file covering the whole spectrum, 
you must splice the .dat files generated by running turboSETI on the .fil files for each node. In the near_realtime_turboseti folder, you will find the file dat_splicer.py, which splices
specified dat files together. In the near_realtime_turboseti/test folder, you will find miscellaneous Jupyter notebooks I used to compare the output from a spliced .dat file versus a dat
file generated by simply running turboSETI on the spliced .fil file. 
